I learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth.
How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.
I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived.
The question is not what you look at, but what you see.
Dreams are the touchstones of our characters.
The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called resignation is confirmed desperation.
You must live in the present, launch yourself on every wave, find your eternity in each moment. Fools stand on their island of opportunities and look toward another land. There is no other land; there is no other life but this.
I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude.
Do not be too moral. You may cheat yourself out of much life so. Aim above morality. Be not simply good, be good for something.
If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them.
Books are the treasured wealth of the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations.
I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately.
If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music he hears, however measured or far away.
All good things are wild and free.
Our life is frittered away by detail. Simplify, simplify.
Read the best books first, or you may not have a chance to read them at all.
I would rather sit on a pumpkin, and have it all to myself, than be crowded on a velvet cushion.
The greatest compliment that was ever paid me was when one asked me what I thought, and attended to my answer.
Live in each season as it passes; breathe the air, drink the drink, taste the fruit, and resign yourself to the influence of the earth.
Nothing makes the earth seem so spacious as to have friends at a distance; they make the latitudes and longitudes.
Disobedience is the true foundation of liberty. The obedient must be slaves.
I was not born to be forced. I will breathe after my own fashion. Let us see who is the strongest.
As if you could kill time without injuring eternity.
There is no remedy for love but to love more.
Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake.