Talent hits a target no one else can hit. Genius hits a target no one else can see.
Compassion is the basis of morality.
A man can be himself only so long as he is alone; and if he does not love solitude, he will not love freedom; for it is only when he is alone that he is really free.
Mostly it is loss which teaches us about the worth of things.
The assumption that animals are without rights and the illusion that our treatment of them has no moral significance is a positively outrageous example of Western crudity and barbarity. Universal compassion is the only guarantee of morality.
Happiness consists in frequent repetition of pleasure
Every man takes the limits of his own field of vision for the limits of the world.
The person who writes for fools is always sure of a large audience.
They tell us that Suicide is the greatest piece of Cowardice... That Suicide is wrong; when it is quite obvious that there is nothing in this world to which every man has a more unassailable title than to his own life and person.
It is difficult to find happiness within oneself, but it is impossible to find it anywhere else.
Compassion for animals is intimately associated with goodness of character, and it may be confidently asserted that he who is cruel to animals cannot be a good man.
One should use common words to say uncommon things
Every miserable fool who has nothing at all of which he can be proud, adopts as a last resource pride in the nation to which he belongs; he is ready and happy to defend all its faults and follies tooth and nail, thus reimbursing himself for his own inferiority.
Man can do what he wills but he cannot will what he wills.
We forfeit three-fourths of ourselves in order to be like other people.
It is a wise thing to be polite; consequently, it is a stupid thing to be rude. To make enemies by unnecessary and willful incivility, is just as insane a proceeding as to set your house on fire. For politeness is like a counter--an avowedly false coin, with which it is foolish to be stingy.
We will gradually become indifferent to what goes on in the minds of other people when we acquire a knowledge of the superficial nature of their thoughts, the narrowness of their views and of the number of their errors. Whoever attaches a lot of value to the opinions of others pays them too much honor.
A sense of humour is the only divine quality of man
Life is a constant process of dying.
A high degree of intellect tends to make a man unsocial.
Religion is the masterpiece of the art of animal training, for it trains people as to how they shall think. 
Treat a work of art like a prince: let it speak to you first.
It would be better if there were nothing. Since there is more pain than pleasure on earth, every satisfaction is only transitory, creating new desires and new distresses, and the agony of the devoured animal is always far greater than the pleasure of the devourer
So the problem is not so much to see what nobody has yet seen, as to think what nobody has yet thought concerning that which everybody sees.
Great men are like eagles, and build their nest on some lofty solitude
If children were brought into the world by an act of pure reason alone, would the human race continue to exist? Would not a man rather have so much sympathy with the coming generation as to spare it the burden of existence, or at any rate not take it upon himself to impose that burden upon it in cold blood?