Without music, life would be a mistake.
It is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages.
That which does not kill us makes us stronger.
I'm not upset that you lied to me, I'm upset that from now on I can't believe you.
And those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music.
It is hard enough to remember my opinions, without also remembering my reasons for them!
There is always some madness in love. But there is also always some reason in madness.
Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you.
You have your way. I have my way. As for the right way, the correct way, and the only way, it does not exist.
You must have chaos within you to give birth to a dancing star.
Sometimes people don't want to hear the truth because they don't want their illusions destroyed.
In heaven, all the interesting people are missing.
There are no facts, only interpretations.
The man of knowledge must be able not only to love his enemies but also to hate his friends.
We should consider every day lost on which we have not danced at least once.
The individual has always had to struggle to keep from being overwhelmed by the tribe. If you try it, you will be lonely often, and sometimes frightened. But no price is too high to pay for the privilege of owning yourself.
He who has a why to live for can bear almost any how.
I cannot believe in a God who wants to be praised all the time.
When we are tired, we are attacked by ideas we conquered long ago.
No one can construct for you the bridge upon which precisely you must cross the stream of life, no one but you yourself alone.
The snake which cannot cast its skin has to die. As well the minds which are prevented from changing their opinions; they cease to be mind.
In individuals, insanity is rare; but in groups, parties, nations and epochs, it is the rule.
The advantage of a bad memory is that one enjoys several times the same good things for the first time.
Man is the cruelest animal.
The surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently.
Is man merely a mistake of God's? Or God merely a mistake of man?
Every deep thinker is more afraid of being understood than of being misunderstood.
Thoughts are the shadows of our feelings -- always darker, emptier and simpler.
Faith: not wanting to know what the truth is.
The thought of suicide is a great consolation: by means of it one gets through many a dark night.
The higher we soar the smaller we appear to those who cannot fly.
I would believe only in a God that knows how to dance.
I am a forest, and a night of dark trees: but he who is not afraid of my darkness, will find banks full of roses under my cypresses.
A thinker sees his own actions as experiments and questions--as attempts to find out something. Success and failure are for him answers above all.
A casual stroll through the lunatic asylum shows that faith does not prove anything.
The true man wants two things: danger and play. For that reason he wants woman, as the most dangerous plaything.
There are no beautiful surfaces without a terrible depth.
We have art in order not to die of the truth.
Be careful, lest in casting out your demon you exorcise the best thing in you.
Beware that, when fighting monsters, you yourself do not become a monster... for when you gaze long into the abyss. The abyss gazes also into you.
All truly great thoughts are conceived while walking.
There are two different types of people in the world, those who want to know, and those who want to believe.
A good writer possesses not only his own spirit but also the spirit of his friends.
you must be ready to burn yourself in your own flame;
how could you rise anew if you have not first become ashes?
One ought to hold on to one's heart; for if one lets it go, one soon loses control of the head too.
All things are subject to interpretation. Whichever interpretation prevails at a given time is a function of power and not truth.
In truth,there was only one christian and he died on the cross.
That which is done out of love is always beyond good and evil.
All I need is a sheet of paper and something to write with, and then I can turn the world upside down.
Silence is worse; all truths that are kept silent become poisonous.
Ah, women. They make the highs higher and the lows more frequent.
Art is the proper task of life.
There is not enough love and goodness in the world to permit giving any of it away to imaginary beings.
What does your conscience say? — 'You should become the person you are'.
Invisible threads are the strongest ties.
Amor Fati. Love Your Fate, which is in fact your life.
Perhaps I know best why it is man alone who laughs; he alone suffers so deeply that he had to invent laughter.
Blessed are the forgetful, for they get the better even of their blunders.
The lonely one offers his hand too quickly to whomever he encounters.
Ultimately, it is the desire, not the desired, that we love.
A thought, even a possibility, can shatter and transform us.
Today as always, men fall into two groups: slaves and free men. Whoever does not have two-thirds of his day for himself, is a slave, whatever he may be: a statesman, a businessman, an official, or a scholar.
Stupidity in a woman is unfeminine.
After coming into contact with a religious man I always feel I must wash my hands.
They muddy the water, to make it seem deep.
The visionary lies to himself, the liar only to others.
He who would learn to fly one day must first learn to walk and run and climb and dance; one cannot fly into flying.
Become who you are!
Is it better to out-monster the monster or to be quietly devoured?
One repays a teacher badly if one always remains nothing but a pupil.
Hope in reality is the worst of all evils because it prolongs the torments of man.
To predict the behavior of ordinary people in advance, you only have to assume that they will always try to escape a disagreeable situation with the smallest possible expenditure of intelligence.
There is more wisdom in your body than in your deepest philosophy.
The most perfidious way of harming a cause consists of defending it deliberately with faulty arguments.
I know of no better life purpose than to perish in attempting the great and the impossible.
Is life not a thousand times too short for us to bore ourselves?
Talking much about oneself can also be a means to conceal oneself. 
the voice of beauty speaks softly; it creeps only into the most fully awakened souls
Everything the State says is a lie, and everything it has it has stolen.
To live is to suffer, to survive is to find some meaning in the suffering.
And once you are awake, you shall remain awake eternally.
Distrust all in whom the impulse to punish is powerful.
One must give value to their existence by behaving as if ones very existence were a work of art.